I’m also working on an AI companion that uses the Wingman AI platform (also for SC) it copies the way the human brain works by reading the game logs and processing it on RAM and then parsing important information into short term memory and has an automatic pruning functionality where it will only move events into long term memory if it meets specific criteria. It then takes all that information and runs it through a complex series of prompt generation to simulate an onboard and a separate on-ship AI companions. They have “personalities” based off of the Myers-Briggs personality classes that will be randomly chosen at first launch along with a secondary class (like merchant, doctor, etc) which adds the nature vs nurture parameters to make it feel truly human. It will also generate random interests, aspirations, likes and dislikes on first launch. Combine this with the ability to evolve the personality based on user actions it can create a near infinite amount of possibilities and the user’s AI companions will truly both be one of a kind. The companions will occasionally banter together and you can get them to be friends or frenemies. I had Claude watch several hundred ASMR videos to understand what it’s like to have a companion talk to you so it could better shape the speech processes. This one is nowhere near beta testing because it’s insanely complex and I’m still refining the dialogue matrix. It has some unusual parameters too like it has to do all this and also use less than $2 a month in tokens using GPT mini (because Wingman is a subscription and not pay per use and the cheapest subscription is around $7 so it’s important the users can also use other skills and not go over budget and hurt Wingman’s bottom line) so it handles these functions in very streamline ways from a token standpoint. The prompt architecture for the first prompt alone took over half a day to engineer since the companion won’t be believable if it doesn’t feel like it’s right there with you and in a sandbox game where anything can happen and the logs are limited extra consideration had to be taken when beginning the project. It’s fairly easy to make an LLM feel like it’s talking to you and is your friend but it’s another thing entirely to give the illusion of autonomy, personality and memory all while not devouring tokens. The majority of the processing power has to be done locally with only tidbits of information being fed to the LLM while most of the data is handled locally so it can be used up to 8 hours a day without hitting the budgetary constraints I see on the program, it also uses caching so Wingman AI remembers a chunk of the personality prompt so it doesn’t need to re-receive that information every time which is part of why it’s inexpensive to run. Saves a lot of tokens when it’s not having to re-read the same several sentences every minute or so when the RNG kicks on and it forms another dialogue prompt.
